---
service-name : maze-service
---

This is the service which provides the ability to generate and resolve a maze from command line.

---
Build Process
---
````bash
mvn clean install
````

---
Execute from command line
--- 
````bash
java -jar target/maze-service-1.0.jar
````

Application can be executed without building the jar

````bash
mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="uk.gov.dwp.maze.MazeApp"
````

---
Technical Choice
---
1. maze-service is a CLI application. The user interactions is using commands from the 
command. Appropriate prompts are provided for the explorer to generate and solve the maze.
2. The generation of the maze is using simple algorithms like reverse backtracking and depth first search.
3. Maze generated by height and width. Height defines the rows and Width defines the columns.
4. Each node represented by Cell and Grid. The cell represents various attributes like walls, 
neighbours, path, travelled, start, end, width and height. The grid provides the position in the maze.
5. There is Maze object which represents all the cells.
6. There are four directions UP - 0, RIGHT - 1, DOWN - 2, LEFT -3.
7. There are four services GenerateMaze, PrintMaze, SolveMaze, MazeService
8. GenerateMaze - initialises the maze for given height and width. Also generates the maze using DFS and reverse backtracking
  algorithm.
9. PrintMaze - prints the maze in three sections top, bottom and interior
10.MazeService - handles all the behavioural changes on maze and also provides required grid values for generation or solving the maze
11. SolveMaze - solves the maze based on the user input.

---
Assumptions
---
1. Assumed there was no requirement for any user interface.
2. The walls UP and DOWN walls represented by 'XXXX'.
3. Once the maze generated, it is printed in console - to display the spaces, walls, start and finish
4. Options to solve the maze or check what exists in co-ordinate provided
5. If explorer decides to solve the maze, prompts for the available directions for movement is provided
6. Explorer can ignore the prompt and choose any numbers between 0, 1, 2, 3.
7. If explorer choose number not listed above the prompt displays the previous option for movement
8. If explorer chooses a valid number but there is no possible movement again the explorer will be prompted with the previous option for movement
9. When explorer provided with two options for movement and makes a choice which takes him away from the FINISH, the explorer is allowed to navigate.
Once the explorer reaches the point where no more movements are available, then automatically brought back to the point where there were two options.
All the reverse track movements is printed on console.
10. Once explorer reaches the Finish, the application exits.
 





